
   
   
Thank you for considering participating in our study. It is important that you understand why the research is being carried out and what your participation will involve. Please read the following information and let the researchers know if you have any further questions.  

   
Who is conducting the study?   
The researchers are from Queen’s University Belfast.   
   
What is the study about?  
The study is being carried out to investigate judgement and decision-making.
   
Do I have to take part?  
Your participation is entirely voluntary, and you have the right to withdraw at any time during the study. 
   
What if I start to take part and then change my mind?  
You may withdraw at any time without providing a reason. If you decide to stop the survey, your partial response will not be recorded as a matter of course, that is, we will destroy your partially filled-in questionnaires, and your data will not be transferred into the data file we will use to store the data electronically.  
   
What will I be asked to do?   
If you decide to take part in the study, you will be asked to read and complete a consent form and provide some information about your age and gender. 
*prolific ID? 
*Education level? (Included in Dietvorst)

We will ask you to work on two sets of ten estimation problems. The first ten problems will be a trial phase to allow you to become familiar with the task. 

In the first part of the study, you will be shown information about 10 bills from a restaurant and asked to make an estimate for the tip given for each bill. You will also be shown predictions made by an advisor. You will be told how close both estimates were to the actual tip received.  

There are bonuses available for making accurate estimations. These bonuses will be based on the accuracy of the estimates you make for the ten bills in part two of the study. 
 
In the second part of the study, you will be asked to estimate the amount paid as a tip for ten bills in a restaurant. As before, you will receive information about ten bills from ten different tables in a restaurant. This information will help you estimate how much each table paid as a tip. Once you have made your first estimate for each bill, you will be shown the estimate made by your advisor. You will then be given the chance to rejudge your original estimate and make a second estimate.
   
Will my taking part in this study be kept confidential?  
Yes, all information you provide through the questionnaires will be kept confidential. All data will be anonymous. 

This means there is no way for anybody to possibly link the data to you. This includes us as the researchers, which means that once you complete the study, we will not have the means to withdraw your data after this point. 

Why is this important? 
Since the data we collect from you may be of interest to other researchers, we will publish it on a publicly accessible online data repository such as the Open Science Framework (https://www.osf.io), where it will remain indefinitely. That means, upon publication of the data set, anyone will have access to your anonymised (i.e., non-identifiable) data.   
   
How long will it take?   
The duration of our study is approximately ?? minutes, on average, and you will receive __ for your time. There are additional bonuses available for accurate estimates.  
   
What are the possible benefits of taking part?  
There are no direct intended benefits to you for participating. However, it is hoped that the data gathered from your responses will contribute to further understanding of the subject area and inform future research.
  
Our research depends crucially on the generous help of participants like yourself. We hope that you can assist us with this project.
   
What will happen to the results of the research?  
The results will be written up in a Doctoral thesis.   
   
Who is organising and funding the research?   
This study is being organised by researchers at Queen’s University Belfast. It is conducted as part of a PhD in Psychology.  
   
Who has reviewed the study?  
This study has been reviewed by the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Ethics Committee.
If you have any further queries, please do not hesitate to contact Dr Thomas Schultze at t.schultze@qub.ac.uk.
   
   
Thank you for your interest in this study and for taking the time to read through this information.

